Game concept 1

2D spatial, but not a Platformer; you see players from the top view, like DoTA or League of Legends.

you control 2 players:
P1 - full WASD control, plus attacks.
P2 - P2 AI will automatically decide where it is going. You can only control the speed of P2 in its direction.

Goal - P1 has to protect P2 in each level. P2 will look for the key to an exit. The Goal is for both players to reach the opened exit. <Edit: Only P2 to reach Exit>

Game context:
P2 is looking for a key to the exit of the level, and will explore the map to find the key, as well as the exit. These 2 can be found by P2 in any order, but the key is needed before the exit can be opened.
There is an enemy boss in this level who is spawing enemies from all over the map. Primary goal of enemies is to eliminate P2 and will actively attack P2. 
They will engage with P1 only if P1 attacks enemies to protect P2.
P2 AI has no attack capability and P1 (Human Player 1) has to protect P2 by defeating the nearest enemies.
In upgrades along the levels, there can be more varieties of weapons (Ranged, AoE, Melee) for P1 and more defenses for P2, but P2 cannot attack anyone.

In case the Boss is located in the level, and P1 is able to eliminate the boss, then no new enemies spawn from the map, other than the ones already present. This is an optional step in the game, but if the boss is not eliminated, then the spawn rate in the next level may increase.
Boss will actively attack P1 as well, and P2 will evade the boss.

P1 will level up based on attack damage done - 10x XP for boss.
P2 will level up based on time AWAY from P1 - <need to determine>

Coins can be collected by both players.

Game Objectives:

P1 Primary objective - protect P2. Game ends if P2 is eliminated.
P2 Primary objective - Locate the key to the exit.

P1 secondary objective 1 - destroy the boss; Boss can be far away from P2, so P1 will have to balance between staying close to P2 or attacking the boss.

Salient objective - collect gold etc. to buy in-game weapons for P1 and defenses for P2.


Other Depth in gameplay - Different types of enemy spawns and bosses, attack weapons and defenses, spawn rate counter, detection concept (roaming in vicinity vs homing on target)
Having options to explore parallel levels instead of serial. If spawn rate is too high in one thread, one can restart from older level.

XP_____

XP Level-up upgrades:
P1 - attack damage, move speed, HP, Armour/Defence
P2 - move speed, HP, Armour/Defence, 

Should be able to reset and reallocate the XP upgrades

GOLD_____

Coin-based tools/purchases:

These enhancements can be assigned to P1 OR P2, not both. <Can consider gameplay to swap these tools during a level, only when P1 and P2 are nearby.>
Coin magnet, cloak, long range visibility, weapons (P1 only), shields (P1/P2), whistle (turn P2 to come towards you?), holler (P2 alerts about enemies in range)
<Above were initial ideas, but didn't make sense in code>

Unlike Runes, Coin based purchases can be perishable as well, eg. 1 invincibility shield, Bullets for P1's magic attacks - perishables are non refundable but Rune upgrades are.

Gold can also be used to upgrade Runes.

RUNES____

Runes are special artifacts that are awarded after the completion of a syn. These cannot be purchased via Gold, and are only earned on level completion.

PlayerOne and PlayerTwo have 2 equipment slots each, to hold either a Gold tool or a Rune


With each level completion, in the 7 levels per syn - you choose how the enemy gets difficult - among 3 options.
Important Addition - Providing 3 options of INCREASING difficulty in the next level and have the player choose 1. Eg. speed, enemy damage, boss health.


Now that I think about this in more detail...maybe the enemy units and bosses can have these 7 traits.
Though that need not be spelled out loud.

The game can have themes of the 7 sins without spelling it out loud. Player chooses any 1 of the 7 themes to start with, and enemies/bosses will have traits in accordance.

Greed - enemies tend to pick up gold and leave less for you. - Bosses disable coin-based tools, including bullets, and can disable other Runes
Sloth - enemies are slower but do more damage. - Bosses stun P1 when they lose a certain % of health. 
Wrath - enemies can potentially move through walls - Agile bosses with rapid low-damage attacks. Boss has range attacks 
Gluttony - enemies have more HP and tend to pickup nearby heals when damaged. - Boss attacks have life-steal and can pickup nearby heals. <May eat nearby grunts to absorb their health>
Envy - enemies are mimics and may replicate P2 <start game with 1 enemy that looks like P2> <Have no detection radius for P1, so they ignore him to blend in> - bosses are weak, but damage may transfer to P2 with a %probability.
Lust - enemies have higher detection radius; Boss chases P1/P2 outside its spawn point, so speed is important.
Pride - Enemies raise an alarm upon detecting P1/P2, attracting more enemies; 6 grunts spawn where boss dies. 

Can start each phase (collection of levels) with a poetic riddle.

Unique "Runes" at completion of the 7 Syns levels for each Syn.

Greed -OK- Glimmer: Coins collected BY ANY 1 PLAYER become more valuable, whoever holds the item - Gold % value Can be Increased by gold. <needs economy of scale>
Sloth - OK - Haste: Probability of ignoring damage. - Chance Can be Increased by Gold.
Wrath - OK - Vengeance: Reflect 30% of own damage sustained back at enemy. % damage - Can be Increased by Gold.
Gluttony - OK - Resolve: Constant Heal over time. Heal rate be Increased by Gold.
Envy - OK - Direction: Compass which points to PlayerTwo location at close distance - Has the same effect, regardless of which player holds it. Distance Can be increased by Gold
Lust - OK - Apathy: When hunted, Invisible for 3 seconds. 5 second cooldown. -  Duration Can be Increased by Gold.
Pride - OK -  Humility: Enemies have a chance to be stunned for sometime while chasing Player. Chance can be increased by gold


IMP - Don't have a separate tutorial level? Integrate it with the initial gameplay

Name of the Game - Syns

What is the meaning of SYNS?
a prefix occurring in loanwords from Greek, having the same function as co- ( synthesis; synoptic); used, with the meaning “with,” “together,” in the formation of compound words (synsepalous) or “ synthetic” in such compounds (syngas) Also: sy-, syl-, sym-, sys-


Other homonyms - Sins, Signs (as in detection)


Game logo: - Make the Y with one hand holding a sword downwards, another one holding the first one's wrist.